Title: My Story - How I learnt to code, sold my project and moved to USA

Description: I gave this little talk at the GCSP story slam at ASU.

Transcript:
hi I'm D and I'm a freshman studying at
ASU this is my second semester and I'm
going to tell you about how I sold my
company in high
school so it's the middle of pandemic
2021 I'm sitting in a cal dark room in
Mumbai India with no idea what I'm doing
with my life I was depressed anxious
because I was giving one of the most
competitive exams of the world which is
J and basically I was just wasting my
time playing games all day because
studies is too difficult
right and I was something called an iPad
kid like you know the kind of person who
like plays games watches YouTube videos
all their childhood and ends up being
very useless in
life that's how I felt I mean I knew
that I knew I'm very useless I knew I
have to turn I have to fix myself and I
had this like liking for technology from
a very young age because of I me having
that iPad and me playing so many games I
thought to myself why am I still a
consumer why I how how do the these
people even make these games like this
is amazing right uh how do they make
these apps how how how is YouTube made
and one day while I was playing y City
on my like phone which yeah I used to
Pirate games on my phone and play it um
I was like okay it's time to get a new
laptop and it's time to like make a game
like this which was like a okay imagine
a normal person who knows nothing about
programming waned to make a game like wi
City that's impossible right I convinced
my parents that I like I'll to get me a
laptop on my birthday in August 2021 and
it was a rather expensive laptop for
someone as useless useless as me at the
time and being in a middle class family
in Mumbai like of course my parents were
like hesitant at first but because I was
their favorite child
they got me
one um so I utilized uh like my time so
the first thing I did after getting that
laptop extremely inspired to like turn
my life around I open the laptop and I
download
Minecraft game the second thing I did
however was open YouTube and search what
the best programming language to learn
as a beginner and I see okay it's python
then how python Co for beginners and I
see this one guy with an Indian guy on
YouTube having like a 16-hour long
course there's no way I'm doing a
16-hour long course and then like I sit
down like put my laptop aside I sit down
look out of the window and I see I say
yes way I can do a 16-hour long course
and that's exactly what I did I sat
through that entire 16-hour long course
in one go with nothing but an up in
between because I'm a human and next
morning my parents were so concerned
about me that for the first time my mom
was like beta let's have tea together
together and um we like yeah next
morning we sat down we had tea together
I was telling Mom everything I learned
why I'm doing it uh and how I'm
utilizing the uh the extreme amounts of
money I just spent on the laptop um but
my mom was like very happy with it and
she told me about this one problem she
has in her business that she has to keep
doing one particular calculation again
and again and again and again and to fix
that I'm in a very small simple python
application that saves our time and like
my mom was so happy and I was so happy
that I kept finding problems in in real
life even if like I had to save like 5
Seconds every day I I spent four hour
solving that problem with code and
automating it but yeah I made a lot of
products projects for myself and for
others now that's a different question
that all the projects that I made for
others were not used by anyone but um
yeah I I made a all of projects like a
lot like at least like 20 25 projects
that I would use in my daily life like a
Dictionary tool um like file auto file
organizer stuff like that and one day I
create like on a random Sunday afternoon
I sit down and I make this uh Twitter
bot and all that Twitter bot did it was
like one of my simplest projects all it
did was like take a photo of that tweet
and send it back to the user like
convert tweet into an image
and maybe like uh make it even more
beautiful or
whatever so I spent an entire day making
it and I slept with like no expectation
for anyone to use it next morning I wake
up there's 100 people using it and I was
like damn this is good so I started uh
talking more about it online and then uh
so enough like after a week there was
there was a thousand people using it and
like 100 followers on that bot and
slowly slowly like
that it got th000 followers then 2,000
then 3,000 4,000 10,000 20,000 40,000
and like soon enough it had like 70,000
followers and 5 million users a month
which was like crazy right like I had to
do something about this I monetized the
bot I raised funding I uh it was just a
Twitter bot so I got a co-founder who
would help me with uh making an actual
app for social media users to like do
all that because apparently that was a
very big issue and we solved that issue
and we made an amazing app and as soon
as I was going to launch it Twitter
announce that they're going to monetize
their API and in order to keep it online
I would have
to pay them $43,000 a month I was
devastated and I decided to sell off the
project which was good because then I
could convince my parents that hey I do
not have to do this je thing I can give
up and I can finally go to us for
studies
now and that's what I did um so yeah I
guess the takeaway from this is to
follow your passion honestly even if
like no one is caring about that no one
like no one will even pay attention to
you initially but slowly you'll get
lucky and lucky and someday something
like this might just happen to you and
that's exact passion is the reason why
I'm telling my story to you guys and
like in USA and not sitting in that cold
dark room playing games in Mumbai
[Applause]
India